---
---
Last week I was away for a long weekend with my family, and as has become the norm in the last year, I took lots of video of my son and his cousins. Now I’m back from the weekend, it’s time to do what I normally do; import all of the footage, edit the best bits against a backdrop of one of my favourite songs whose lyrics are acceptable for all of my family, upload it to YouTube and let everyone know how to access it.

I love doing this. Why? For a start, it’s just a different way to document a family event, or a day out. Photos are great and I still enjoy taking them too and printing the best ones to put up around the house or share with the family, but video gives something different , something powerful, in a way that photos can’t. Movement. I know it sounds obvious to suggest that videos move more than photos, and everyone knows that, but with that movement comes a different experience, capturing different things.

Another reason I enjoy doing this is the reaction it gets from my family. They are genuinely moved by the videos, and I’m starting to think they’d be disappointed if I didn’t make them – although it’s quite possible I’m mistaken. This is relatively new to them as an alternative method of capturing a memory, but it’s certainly something they are open to and don’t mind me pointing a camera at them or their offspring for minutes at a time when we’re all trying to enjoy an occasion.

The last thing I enjoy about making these videos is the process. Even though it’s pretty basic and I don’t have advanced software, tools or equipment, I am in full control of how to put the video together, which clips to use, what kind of mood I want to set. My only limitation is my own ability to capture the shots I want.

Although I’d like to think that my close family enjoy these videos because I’m a talented filmmaker, the reality is that this end result is straight forward to achieve. For a start, I’m filming things they will want to see… their children, their Nephews and Nieces. I discard all the naff stuff and keep the good content. Also, I don’t have to provide any dialogue. I just chose a song to set the tone and let it play as the background track from start to finish, fitting all the clips in during that time. I'm basically shooting a music video. And lastly, the easiest thing for me is that I am always behind the camera so never have to be the subject which is just as well as I hate to see or hear myself in any media. I just have to try and take the time to capture a variety of footage with a camera that will pretty much do the job automatically as long as I point it in the right direction. Ok, maybe I’m being a little hard on myself, but you get the idea.

The thing is, I want to get better, and I don’t always want to have to wait for a family holiday or birthday to make something. So I need to remove these comfort blankets, move to be in front of the camera, and address my dislike of my own voice and appearance. I want to make something that people whom I’ve never met, may want to watch. For me, that’s pretty terrifying, but challenging. I’m not saying I want to make a feature film, or have a ‘crew’, but I think I'd like to make some simple films by myself.

The reason I started watching videos online was because after my father died, I remembered that he had performed on a TV show as part of a choir he sang in. He was prominently placed in the front row of the choir, so was visible most of the time. I desperately wanted to see my Dad moving rather than just smiling in a photo, so I turned to YouTube; surely someone had uploaded this show? They had. And this helped me tremendously. Since then I’ve watched more videos about people I don’t know, and it has only proved to demonstrate what a powerful medium this is. It’s not just prank videos, silly singing, or cats doing the funniest things. And additionally if you’ve got any kind of camera or smartphone and a computer, you can make films yourself. So that’s what I intend to do, not because I want an audience, just because I enjoy trying to make something and challenge myself. And one day someone who loves me might want to see me move, just once more.
